CSE 230 – Assignment 1
Important: This is an individual assignment. Please do not collaborate.
Make sure to follow the academic integrity policies. Using work done by someone else or AI will
be considered a violation of the academic integrity and will result in a report to the AIO. Your
work should not match with anything found online.
Copying any part of this assignment, and providing them to another person or posting them on
the Internet without a permission of the instructor will be a violation of its copyright.
http://www.asu.edu/copyright/
Show all the steps including formulas, calculations and Units to receive full credit.
There are 2 questions worth a total of 3 points.
Question 1:
A technology company is evaluating two processors for a new real-time image-processing
application. During testing, the application executes approximately 520 million machine
instructions to process a standard workload.
The engineering team tests the application on two prototype processors. Processor Alpha
operates at 4.6 GHz and requires an average of 1.8 clock cycles to complete an instruction.
Processor Beta operates at 5.2 GHz and completes an instruction in an average of 1.3 clock cycles.
(a) The engineering team wants to select the processor that completes the image-processing
workload sooner. Compare the performance of the two processors and determine how much
faster the better-performing processor is than the other. (0.5 points)
(b) Before making the final selection, the design team proposes modifying the processor's
instruction set architecture (ISA). Simulations indicate that the modification could allow the same
workload to be completed in 12% less time. However, the added complexity of the new ISA
causes each instruction to require, on average, 18% more clock cycles. The number of instructions
executed by the application remains unchanged.
If the company wants to achieve the proposed 12% reduction in execution time, determine the
clock frequency at which Processor Alpha and Processor Beta would each need to operate after
the ISA modification. (1.5 points)
Question 2:
A development team is testing a processor for an autonomous navigation system. During one of
its routine navigation calculations, the processor executes several types of machine instructions.
Analysis of the program shows that the workload consists of 8 arithmetic/logic operations, 3
unconditional branch operations, 6 conditional branch operations, and 4 data-transfer
operations.
Because these operations have different levels of complexity, they do not all require the same
amount of processing time. An arithmetic/logic operation requires 1 clock cycle, an unconditional
branch requires 2 clock cycles, a conditional branch requires 3 clock cycles, and a data-transfer
operation requires 4 clock cycles.
The navigation system executes this workload on a processor operating at a clock frequency of
4.8 GHz.
(a) Determine the average number of clock cycles required per instruction for this navigation
workload. (0.5 points)
(b) Using your result from part (a), determine the performance of the processor when executing
this workload. (0.5 points)
